 A tape. We are glad to have today. Our professor Wei is who sang. She sent me her shoulder bio. And in the shown by where I was taken aback to learn that you just got a PhD in 2012 because she has the handler been AT publication. If we take the ears of the PhD off, it means something like 18 publication here. This is it. I think that you are, there is nobody comes close in that area. Old-fashioned Sufi me and she got a PhD in you, you University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. Which is what I used to say. I was there for a master algorithms to say, you'll learn a lot there because there's nothing else to do. And so she learned a lot. And she's in the area of data mining. And they apply in all sorts of data, big data and learning and all these, it's all sort of how can distinguish should be. Well, if we look what she does and she will probably let you know when they don't like the angle is so easily disclosures. Thank you. Add it but a nice introduction. I guess I wanted to say data papers, many of them or publish that during my PhD. Though Asia divided by, divided by Warriors Publishing. Okay. So let me share the screen. Can everyone see my screen now? Yes. Okay, Great. Good morning everyone and welcome to UCLA. So today my topic is tried to introduce what our data in data science, of course like. I could make this as like an introduction to data science. But I think if the boy, No, What is probably where we're looking at the presenter view of the sides. Let me do that. We're in because a habit to going Yeah. Is it better? Yeah. Thank you for that reminder. Yes. So yeah. But I think before we already know how to process the data rights and probably want to know what the data, what kind of data should be considered data. So that's why the motivation of this talk. First, why data science? Because we have lots of data. If we look at the plot below, we can say that the data alone, the years, actually it explanation of row, okay? And now you can just look at the last year, okay, then we have, Thanks for pointing to I find theta. So probably you're not familiar with this. Data, might need that to me. It turns out that applied is 1 trillion gigabytes. So most likely will we purchase your laptop rise above it. You have Huang, Huang's out then gigabytes, which is 1 t. Yeah, If we look at the data, they taught her entire word and I can fix the pool data by enabling divided by the population of the whole word, which almost two won't be right there. 8 billion something. I know. 80 billion, Sorry, Got it. Now. Aw, AW, yeah, they've weight divided by that number than the average for every person. We have like 8 thousand gigabytes of data in average. And then if you still have difficulty understanding what are those unit to measure the data, right? So we just provided this table. I don't want to go through arrow thing, but it's the, I want to emphasize the data. So what is it about by data at shape? The alarmed, it's kind of as much as the spend on all of the worst speeches. You can imagine that a lot. So there were no match. We have lots of data and that's why data science or data mining machine learning. All those distant wise that to handle data is very important. Then before way, try to learn those more advanced courses in our later years. But then we'll probably want to understand way theta. So I checked the Wikipedia and also the Webster dictionary. Okay, and I'm not satisfied by the definition because they are pretty vague and somehow they relate data to information. And just to give us this concrete. And the reasonable definition. So that's why I decided that. Okay, let's start from beginning and let's have like more comprehensive view of what Theta r. So first of all, operate like you to watch movies rises. Then the movies tended to kind of visualize the data in the binary code. That indeed in the end, when we try to store them in the computer, and it's going to be just a one in there. But this does not help with just the key point impression that there are lots of binary digits, which the computer's good at. So let's start from the example that the power is closer to two. Now let's complete our example from before. Before the example, I just want to read. It didn't sound good to me or did that turns out your eye? You say what our data and I felt what is data, what is, and then the Miriam Webster says, you can use it in singular, plural, whatever. So singular, although data faculties, a lot of it is plural, is many people use then also they use is what is data? What David did. So Just a comment. Yeah, it gets there. Okay. Yeah. So although like in nature, right, people say that they also continue to rate each other, but somebody Wikipedia the first hear this data are something that the later data is dumping per se. But still at point out that it's daytime or like yet the singular of data. But yeah, I agree with you for just the white trait as singular for alternate, late depending on the context also. But I agree with you, yeah, we can others and what is data? But theta is a furrow form in the beginning that made people doesn't treat it as a singular. Okay, so that is my pointer here. Again with physics example, right? So as humans day, we want to explore the word and, but it will need a sound signal. And then based on that second now we can try to understand what's going out. So for example, if we want to estimate the acceleration constant G unpaired, right? Then according to Newton's laws. So we know that we can use this formula, calculate this. Yeah, there's a relationship between the travel distance and the time and ended with T constant G. They will want you to calculate g, right? So that we know that when you tried to collect the pairs, which is about the trauma distance and the square of the time, then you probably can design your experiment. It just try to jump your ball off different height. And for each different to hide, you just do multiple trials. And each trial you can just measure the time. Okay? And they forgot the time, Java time. They also thought that tom SWOT, right? So that's why it this way it can collect lots of appeals. For example, for the first, the high Theta, we compare this point to five with this first piece, the second venture and lots of likes his work house. And it was sort of signal rises then it differently for each pair you can calculate g and then somehow I can do average and they trade that a g as the estimator, all of the branches g. So that's what we can do in physics. In practice, we are interested in many other problems. For example, we wanted to understand how we can no, the price for a new house come into the market. They want to, based on some signals to make that prediction. And also, suppose the person decided to purchase a house rather than the present has to go to the bank and try to apply for a loan. And that the long then banker has to, based on some secondary to decide like how much loan we kept group for that person. So that's some sort of data the bank wants to collect, right? And also our hallway in some other situations, we want to understand with a per se is a potential customer to a product. So if it is, then we can recommend that a product to the person that's widely utilized in the recommender system. Whenever you go for somebody, you go to Amazon. Okay. Then Amazon would recommend products to you. And when you do the ICU with search, google will kinda recommended some sort of app that a potential related to you can sell them. In this particular setting, you also need to know what kind of data I can clap and also flow for that band, right? So they also do something based on your transaction. Figure know they want to decide whether this credit card transaction is potential fraud or not, if it is right. So they always send you a message and ask you to compare. And if you do not do that, I've quick enough then the transaction web decline, okay? Yeah. So in real life, we have lots of questions or objectives in mind. Then we needed to collect the corresponding secondary. And then we can try to help us to make the decisions like that, the physical experiment. If you haven't go in line, you just go ahead to some experiment and collect some data. And then you can use this data to estimate when you want to. Then That's the motivation why we need data. Once you answer questions related to our daily life, then the next question that what other data, okay, So actually when we talk about data, they are in different forms. Then we just try to cover them one by one. And we just start from the most that populate womb of the data when it's coming back to data all at tabular data. So in this tabular data, so why is habitat? Because somehow it can be summarized in the table. They not a big table. Each row stands for data point, okay? And each column stands for the feature of that dative bond. So in this case, or they can consume, maybe it's just the customer database. So that's why each row represents a person or a customer. And each column is just the features of that particular customer. For this kind of data we can easily present into the matrix. I'm not sure whether you have already learned matrix. Maybe some of you have learned that AP class, right? And how it can be represent each matrix. And this matrix has m rows indicating own data points and p columns indicating the different columns that the very widely used the data form that we have. And in the relational database. Imagine that those data much like they are storing this way. But when we look at the defense attributes or features of this data, we will also see that there are some differences there. Somehow those attributes, they are nominal data, meaning that you cannot really compare the values of those possible outcomes. For example, your hair color, but then there are not a comparable encourage the numerical value. Always DO. Different device, which one's bigger, which one is smaller. And a special case of nominal data is called a binary data. Okay? So in this particular case, for example, for the medical tests that we start out with positive and negative cases like the binary case. There's some other cases which gives, which it looks like they are categorical attributes. But somehow that is very comparable to each other. So those attributes are called ordinal attributes. For example, your grade for a certain course by so then, yeah, can, you can really interpret that? For example, a is higher than the IV, it's higher than C, although they are steady screen. Though, that we need to consider how to handle different types of attributes in nutshell, vector data. But although lots of people have spent a lot of efforts the handwriting that vector data or tabu data. That's actually the data is more than that, okay? For example, next, I'm going to introduce the less frequently mentioned data, but I like it does a comparative better deal than less frequently mentioned, but they're very, very popular. For example, set data, sequence data, and time series data. Now let's first look at that data. So what is that data? I think the best scenario you think this problem is like if you go to grocery, supermarket, then usually you're going to have a basket and yet or shopping cart. And then you put the products to purchase into the shopping cart. And then after you've finished shopping, right, you just go to check out. And so that will make it as a transaction. H for reaction here can be considered as a set by ignoring the quantity associated with each item. Like I do not care how many dx we are purchasing, but just write down whether we have purchased milk, not so essentially each transaction and because he has a set a and this is also some like a flow problem. Data mining people are inches in and up two or three decades ago. Okay, So that to me is like the starting point of data mining. And so this metadata, we can buy something very interesting. They can know that which product and what you product their curvatures together frequently. For example, something is quite obvious to us, like bread and milk. They had purchased quite a lot. But that will be considered as a pattern. But also something that is out of our expectation in the detector here as well. For example, beer and diaper. Beer and diaper. So you probably think that those two things are related to each other. But this is a pattern that to data mining people that has discovered a real data set. I think that in German, in Germany is like supermarket, people realize that a beer and diaper, they are always cockroaches. Okay, so then that people tried to kind of make some interpretations for that obeys the story behind nice light. Usually in the winter of Germany, it's very cold. And the mommy's with newborns rises. They tend to stay at home, then that is where we send out or divert, right. That's the meantime, the daddy's will grab a beer. So that's why people are just see this pattern. Yet. Diaper they are co, put, purchased together. There was this kind of categorize them from supermarket perspective than they can do something, take some action to the patents that they have discovered. For example, they can just put a beer and diaper too bad. All right, so then you needed to watch a long distance to grab another item which since the late, unrelated to the first item that you have purchased, the depth of that data. And nowadays, you got for us, right? So use the Amazon, like online shopping a lot, okay? But even Amazon is still see that the Amazon doing this frequent pattern mining a lot of data. For example, way to try to purchase some pain, right? Sorry. It's always try to recommend you. How about you are considering for all three items together, okay? Because this is based on our customers experiments and they usually they will purchase all of them. So let me suggest that you consider that. That's very similar to the setting like offline supermarket case, right. So based on your shopping record with one item, that item, they are coupled together them already, we just put them into similar vacation. Then in your high chance to grab the other one, but they're doing the same thing, but everything does move to online. There was this frequent had no horizon. It will also can tried to get two doors out of it, which is kinda association rule. For example, you're going to say that a conditional on the dipole has been purchased, then the probability that a beer when the purchase is actually 75%, which is very high. But yeah, it could be misleading, I guess. In the end, I'm also going to talk about something about the misleading data for that data. The next data type I want to mention is the sequence data. The sequence data is also the example of our human being, right? So, oh, yeah, Any, any species on this planet. And we have its genes and how it's changed sequence. And then we can get this HE svg code right to represent each species for each percentage in the bidders gene sequence. So that was those chains sequence. Lots of question can be answered. For example, in the high level, we can try to evaluate what's the similarity between different species. And hopefully that can answer a question related to evolution because the assumptions like if some species evolved from some other species prices, then they are gene sequence will be more likely to be similar to each other. That has at the kind of spacious level, but at the individual level, it's also very important. For example, you'll want to know whether some certain genes related to some certain disease. And then based on aligning all the sequence data on poverty can find that at all. There's kind of correlation between this gene and that disease, right? So then we're gonna do some screening out of your GAN to try to estimate the risk of any person who develops certain disease in the future. Okay, So that's sequence data. And also another very popular utilize the data type is time series data. For example, the gas price rise of people. Pay attention to that and also like stock price of the good, trying to understand the behavior of the stock price time series, and tried to predict. Based on historical data to predict the future stock price, right? So, yeah, so that's so important, especially to the Hajj bond. All companies in Wall Street had been, they can make a lot money. And analogous outbreaks like COVID-19 come from the cases are based death cases bright. So that is also time series because for example, this figure, it is copied from New York Times. There are lots of given abrasive they tried to provide this Bailey confirmed cases or not. Just so then we can have a good understanding of what what is the current trend. And oh, yeah, we can do the penny in advance and also the policymakers, they also wanted to leverage this observed time series to predict the future trend. And then they can do the ending balance. For example. Whether we needed to have this stay at home or policy, right? Whether we can be more relax according to the current time series. And this is another kind of data and with this time is like chalk heart in a graph. Right? So essentially, yeah, so in the hospital than they can based on this, to decide whether your heart might might have some like your second heart disease spreads out, then they can quickly identify that. And how I can kind of decide whether this anomaly here or there. That will need to know how we can compare this time series with some kind of knowledge from series. And if we say that, okay, this, this pattern is so weird compared to the normal time series. Then we know that there potentially, There's some something wrong in your heart. So that sequence and time series data. And do we have even more fancier data? Yes, we did. Okay. The next we're going to move on to the data that are not typically touched by people out of 10 of computer science community because just too difficult for them. The first type of data, text data, probably for quite a long time we talk about data. We just have this impression that the data has to be numeric or right. And and then you can do some calculation based on that. But if it's just a text, that's kind of description, no information, price, difficult to process it in the computer. So that's why for quite a long time, it will just do not do too much things on the texts. Like try to use simpler approach. Try to turn the text data into, for example, tabular data. And here it is. I want to mention that text data is brim orange. For example. We can, we can do sentiment analysis on text data. For example, right here we can see that they're like to reviews for the movie. And then we'll try to understand this review is positive or negative. Here are some websites. People. In addition to this text data, people also provide some numerical rating score, the spot. But I suppose you want to utilize social media data, right? So then people, when they make a movie, they usually do not give the numerical score to just provide a description of it. But then can you try to August in their sentiment regarding this movie, just the basics. So that's very important. And the first example here is like also very related to our daily life, which is about a spam detection based on email, which most of the information, our tax information. And you decide whether it's spam or not. Spam then automatically move that email HE or some photo. Then we just do not waste your time. And also avoid the risk that you are fished. And also people tried to make the ringing more automatic, which is current machine comprehensive. So our machine rating of the ideas like nowadays, we would just have so many, so many tags is considered research area. In computer science. There are so many papers published every day in magical domain. Same vein, okay. Maybe every year they're like millions of papers published, new papers published. So as human beings, it's very difficult to cure rate other's papers and put them into the right category and tried to get knowledge out of it, right, then. Automatic rating using machine and tried to summarize it's important, information becomes important for them. Yeah, lots of things can be done here. One thing you can do is like, unless you do some automatic help to moderate, meaning that I I tried to automatically summarize what are the main topics mentioned in that collection of documents. Okay? And I automatically assign each paper, for example, I into those topics. Then Alice, if I'm on inches in some certain topic to just pay attention to the papers belong to that topic so that OSF blossom time. The more recent the desert train an edge YG, just a process that kind of descriptive text data where each worry can see malleus kind of a symbol from a dictionary. It's discreet. But nowadays there is a trend that will turn this discrete assemble into some enumerate numerical vector. For example, here is just a bunch of words. Each data point here, each dot here is a word. And it has like it to be a coordinates. But in practice, actually each word it can be represented with a high dimensional vector point. And here just for visualization or as a tourism process, a reward, it just becomes a dot here. And by doing so then we actually can't tell whether this one and that one of the abdomen to each other. Let's consider an example like a hotel and motel, right? If we just treat them as discrete assemble, there's no way for us to understand Luciana hotel. They actually close to each other during this so called representation learning by turn them into numerical vector. Now we can easily say that our material comfort care, they are just the two data points here that are very close to each other. Now, in addition to that, router, also find this intrinsic relation between two words. For example, if we can represent the men as the data point here, a dot here is a dot here, right? Then this lecture from Manchu woman actually equals to 1 minus net, right? And then if we plot some other related words like Uncle versus King was Kwame, who say that onto my uncle. And quite modest came, okay, those two vectors, they're just very similar to the vector woman and man. Okay? Though with this kind of intrinsic structure, the way cow can compute. For example, if we know our chain, right? And we'll want you based on chains vector to predict the coins vector. What do I can do is just that we use Keynes vector plus this vector which can be computed through 11 minus men. Then we can get the point, the point 0 point. So this is just an example to do this. And now what we're going to do TOEFL exam or something or as he wanted to do this kind of analogy problem, this is a very simple way to utilize it, but actually the representation learning for text. But the implication is more than that. Okay? For example, if it is combined with some other more advanced that has the same machine translation, meaning that you can just translate text from English or or some other language into a different language like his German, right? We can vary, do lots of things for the text. And nowadays, people also try to train very advanced model such that you can just write a blog, obey the automagically is an algorithm to run walk or ride, like just the CarPlay or something. Okay? So that's text data. Yet. There are lots of tracks data imagine people can do, can utilize that data to do lots of ancient things. The next type of data is this image data. Image data on that the idea is like for each data point, it's just image, right? So this is our very simple case which the and the rich and digits and re-image. Yes, it's a handwritten digit. And then we'll just put that into a box. Okay? And then we want to understand price open season for the first image, which digit is in as humans per class a 0 and this for Isaac for that then nowadays we wished that based on some labeled image, but some way if we have this data and have its branches navel, this is corresponding to 0. And for that, we can really train a model and try to automatically do the classification. In not only for the handwritten digit, we can do this kind of task or more arbitrary image. For example, we can try to classify ARPU, which animal this is, again, what we tried to associate, some sort of attached to the image. And that will help us to understand. And for the data rather than for the image data. I think one very interesting application I want to mention is like can you related ours? Okay? So for example, here, if we handled this image of property rights, then given an image here and given a dye that you want it to be transferred to, no coverage for the first image into the third image, which has a content from the first image, but having the style from the second image. Similarly here, you want to transform this image into this side, right? So then you get this third image. Yes, So this is like try to automatically assign these captions to this image. That is very helpful because, you know enough, right now again, hand the image brand is quite expensive. So if you can turn images into these captions, into this text, they do have a much, much easier for people to allocate the information you want. And also it can help disabled people who have Mike Bishop problem because then they can directly is some average them to read out the text part than they know that. Okay, What's this image is about? And that's very important. So this image data and raisins or a pico also pay lots of attention to the graph data. So graph data, graph data. If we're comparing to all the previous data type of format. I think that's the most complicated one. So in general, a graph, I think later where you learn data structure or maybe graph theory residue will have a better understanding of the graph. Right now just on a graph is just the notes, okay? The, each dot represents something. The later I'm going to show some examples. And the edges between the nodes, they can represented the connection or relationship between those two now. So graph actually are also every, well, for example, for the drugs, right? So they essentially they are picking cocoa. Butter is chemical compound. Each note here that the atom, and then the ADG has napkin as atom that can compound. Okay, so each can go. Compounding can be represent as graph. This is a protein-protein interaction graph. Node here is a protein. And then, you know, in human body or in right here. Now what, whatever living things, right? The protein can interact with each other. Not only does that within the same species, but for example, if some virus invaded our human body actually also it's crossed species kind of interaction. Yes, this can also be clues, can be represented as a graph. And our Internet, this gigantic graph, each node, computation of node, it will be our laptop or computer or server or Roger. And let us connect to each other. And this is kind of research collaboration network. So each node, Here's author and if they have ever collaborated with one paper and then we can just put a link between them. More recently, people also started to I graph that are representing knowledges, that arrangement. They say. For example, I will know that UCLA is located in Los Angeles, but that's a knowledge. And we can put this knowledge into a graph by treating the FCRA as entity standards as entity and locate a connection between them. Now revenue loss and it's also connect to our indicates fear, other relations. And similarly, if we use theory, if you put those knowledge, which is represented as the triple, had ended the relation that your energy together, then it's going to be a gigantic graph. Again. People can use that graph to do lots of things. For example, when you start to search in Google, actually, Google leverage an autograph and tried to examine, you search for Mike Bloomberg, rather than trying to understand omega axis entity and find the similar entities to your query in now again, just to recommend you to do some other related search. And also similarly, when you try to use Siri, you asked questions to serve to Siri or Alexa, right? So then when they try to answer your posture, they're also leverage the knowledge graph that a story is not about knowledge base. Okay, with that, then they can answer your question. And notice we've already paid more attention to the drug based the graph, okay? And the idea is like once I break so many graph, okay, I'll try to examine the graphs that have start in some database like chalk. Then can we automatically synthesized some new blocks of a building this way we can really make the industrial much, much faster than what we have right now. So that's some like micro research. And for social network is another graph. Here actually is a retreat network. Each node here is, I believe, Twitter account, okay, and then each link between those two nodes indicate a retreat between those two Peter account. And then based on this nice analysis and visualization, nobody can roughly understand the major communities in the recession network and try to make that social network data makes more sense. I'm an honest like That's because even fancier, even crazier example. Our programs can be considered as data hardware circuit. It can be concise data array. Now let me just show you a sample that what do we can do if we treated programmers data? So this is averaged them how to hold x, which is just the released by Open AI. And what they try to do here is try to do automatic programming. So if we write something here, I think just now I think it said that, okay, This show some like a snow in the black background. The ones you use like plain English. Okay. For described, what do you want to do? And in the right panel. So we can directly output of the JavaScript code and then I to automatically run it. Okay, covered human has to connect. But it wasn't a riot and no one can really see the outcome. That's okay. This, this code indeed, does it do what we asked it to do. So that's a very fancy NLP task here. And if we treat the program as beta, yeah, I think it we can also do that. I also wanted to make a comment. Does that mean dancer? Right now, AI can review the automatic coding so we don't need to worry about it at all. It's just like showcase. In some simple scenario. Then we can kind of generate a sound a either how class to do the better coding, but doesn't mean that it can't really replace humans. So also want to use the remaining time to make some final comments here. So the final comments like data some knee. And then I want to just write eight inches example and I hope that you can participate. They have you can join slido.com. Okay. Code for it. Just scan this QR code. Okay. Then you can you can participate. Then I just give you one minute to do the setup. Although if you have downloaded it up, it will still keep actually our code here and also the number of years. So yeah, I just wanted to sum all of it. So the first question is, do you think your friends have more friends? Okay, So majority of you think that your friends to have more France, the UK. And my answer to this phenomena, It's like mathematical, it'll come from that. So for example, suppose we have like a social network. Each node here is a person, okay? And how many friends you have? And just like we would just account for some of this person, he or she has one friend. Right? And this person, he or she has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. I print. Okay. Then it's a rear ashes of your network. Okay, It's collected from gems, parliaments, 1961 study of high school. Okay? And then we can just do the counting, okay, so for each node, there are two numbers. On the left-hand side we have a number like how many friends do you have? For example, this person whisker, right? So she has two friends and then the right number is the average them out with your friends. So because this current has to friend for the first bread, she has two friends. What a second? A friend. She asked my friends if we do the average is 3.5. So for every node a here, we can do a very similar calculation. Maybe just take a rough look. Majora and people, except for those very high degree nodes who have, has lots of friends, okay, majora and people just to have a higher number on the right-hand side, it ended up inside. Or in other words, most people think the average of brands have more friendly. I do an integral worry about this. Now really, right, because you know, the rayon and that's your friends have more brands because there are some high degree nodes. They tend to be friends with more people. The more people will see them. Okay, so that's what they will be included in the average brands calculation for those the same amount, small-minded people, they will affect the average brands that, uh, yup, and how that number. So that's why you will have a spirit, but majority of you to look at the left-hand side, all of those numbers from a job here is to have a similar number of friends, okay? And then this degree of node after all power, all that will be taught, they be covered in some other later classes. But here I just want to let you know that there's some wise, we observe this word. And it can be mathematical and doesn't mean anything. It just means that some nodes with high degree, they kind of dominating the equation. Alright, now let's come to the second question. Do you think your opinion is different from majority? Okay, great. So this time, most of I think your opinion is very similar to the majority. Okay? And now let's look at the so-called another example, friendship paradox. So now, of course, the Senate does not necessary to be rear or do we just make a very special setting here? As I suppose there's a social network with a bunch of people there. Okay. And we just assign a far the color to the people with high degree. Okay. I played it a color or two people with graduate degrees. Okay. Now let's charge. So this colored me anything, okay? So here we just use two different colors to indicate it to give an opinion. The analysis, again, tragic, calculated to, thanks for every node. So the lepton number is like a loyal friends. How many of them have this blade it color, for example, this one, right? So this present has 1, 2, 3 friends and including, I think it has to inquiry and easy to forget. Okay, I need you repress it. So for this person, it has driven and a 20 of them actually do have the solid colored. From this person's perspective, two-thirds of the people in his or her word has a color of sorry. Naloxone, the canvas. Well, okay. So for this present, it as a person has three friends as well. And the two of them have colored in his or her own words. Again, majority of people in a word can have a color of this article. David, check this right. Do you see that majority of people would think that the word is preferred, solid color. But if from the parcel, wait, wait, we had a person who can see the whole situation. We observe the whole social network who will say that there are only four solid people and eight of other people they actually played it colored. From in time. We know that the majority is played it, okay? But for each person individually or unfortunately reverse. And then if you think you're not, if you are not the same to the majority, the people likely to change their mind, to change the color, to go with the majority. Okay, then you will see that if we redo the experiments, social experiment us, a lot of people will gradually change the color to solid because they think that they are minority. Even the choose it that they are withdrawing. This is a panel that how does okay. So I have two minutes left. Now I want to show another paradox. Yeah, we'll just kind of Simpson's paradox of I. So in this example, in this data, right? So yh, each dot represents a person and this x axis is like how much hashtag you are taking everyday. And a y axis is the BMI with that particular person. Okay? So then the H dot is a person, okay, then you can see the trend. Then based on the data that you have seen it, do you think Why should I take unless asked if they wanted to have lower BMI according to the data that you see, had showed that data again, roughly that asks them all path that you're taking, OK, then the bigger BMI that you have, or if you want to have a lower BMI than hobby, you will choose that you want to take unless asked them. Hey, by the way, if I gave you want information. Okay? So now I just color this box with different colors. Color represent waiting group. But somewhat, maybe the scope is like a big thinker. And this group is like with less weight and this is with even less weight and this ones with even less weight. Okay? So those bunch of people can be petitioning to Ethernet groups. But they each group. You will say that if you pick more past, you have BMIs going to be lower by then, but there's only new information you see. I think I want you to take a mess pass site. They want to have a lower BMI. Okay. Great. Yeah. So how a majority of you are saying no? Because the rate depends on base. Oh, like Snapple group, which now to say that the trend is the kind of reverse. Okay? So in summary, I guess I want to say that the data has been orange. Data is providing the signals for us to understand. The orange are doing tremendous work. But the data does not have the knowledge. You need to connect the dots to get a knowledge. Data does mommy inside. Okay, data does not me. Wisdom and data sometimes be misleading. And if you want to know more about data and how to process them and how to turn them ETUs for knowledge and how I can avoid this, that misleading potential horizon that we need to take the more advanced concepts. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Conspiracy to your unicorn out. Making the best opportunity. Yeah. Any questions? Sleep.com is the interesting. No questions. No questions. Flute length. We didn't see the flute length. Huh? Yeah. I've found yeah. Yeah, that's fine. I can overcome. Raise your hand. I see. I see somebody some checked in the chat. Natalie. Natalie, good. That asking the 0 value anatomy Judson. Thank you. Yeah. Good. Yeah. Jim from Audi would add applications of knowledge maps. So I guess the notch a map here is not graph. Is that the case? But I never mind. I guess a lot. They've got it. They're referring to knowledge graph. Then there are lots of applications, for example, such and Jane, question answer System, dialog system and recommender system, the awning to use rights as an entrepreneur. I have a question. You let the example of say taking getting data from text. This you could do the addition can do without NLP, without understanding, you just you just done, done mechanically. There's no need for follow some understanding. What is the topic and what does he say? Well, you know, how far out are much warmer to honor, both Uber tried to bring our tax. Someone doing like a syntax are staying and they tried to honest and a row of each word. But nowadays, the probe out the trend just to fit that into very advanced machine learning model like a transformer tried to represent each weren't nice manage might directly represent a sentence and try to directly neutralize the representation to do classification or even generate. The next word that we could see. The NADH is obvious, very defined brow. Now, in early days, which does not require that cannot be honest in your language anymore, but gain some insights. Some of those big eyes. Notice also there are some people say that I still want to use the syntax tree. And I want to combine this structure, the data, with the sequence text data together to see whether we can have like a better effectiveness in the meantime. Maybe also make our money more efficient. Because if we treat the sentence as a sequence, and nowadays people tried to consider relation between everyone in every other word. In that local window is very expensive. Then we have a tree structure like, okay, Per I only needed to consider the relation between this word and the word closely connect to that one in a tree structure. Okay? There is something why did we need to lead when we have come up and receive the so generally, if you have a question I see. And judge, if you want to get on board that we see. No. Okay. And we have the losing people very fast. So I think let me thank again, professionally Zues son Over the last symbols that even very entertaining. Thank you for the entertainment. And a Zoe, you can, you can stop the recording.